we recently proposed pathological parameters of renal lesions observed in anti - neutrophil cytoplasmic antibody ( anca)-associated vasculitis ( aav ) patients .
, we evaluated the predictive potential of this newly proposed categorization in myeloperoxidase ( mpo)-anca - dominant mpa patients in japan .
re - evaluation of the predictive value by adding other parameters such as interstitial or vascular lesions for mpa - oriented cohorts is expected .
recently , using some of the glomerular parameters , an international working group of renal pathologists proposed a new histopathological classification of glomerulonephritis ( gn ) in aav with four categories ( focal , crescentic , mixed and sclerotic ) , corresponding to the severity of renal function loss in this order during a 5-year follow - up .
the significantly more favorable prognosis of mixed than crescentic in china is similar to japan , where both focal and mixed rarely showed progress to esrd . in conclusion , the mixed group in the new classification has high heterogenicity of histological activity and chronicity , which shows the insufficiency of this classification for prediction of the probability of progressing to esrd .
only 7 ( 8.0  % ) were categorized as crescentic , with the remaining 26 cases ( 29.9  % ) being classed as mixed . as shown in fig .  1 , the kaplanmeier curve at the 5-year follow - up showed no increase of probability to esrd in focal cases and a low increase in mixed cases ; however , this increased with the ascending categories of crescentic and sclerotic gn.fig .  1renal survival ( no development of end - stage renal failure ) according to the four histologic categories in japanese cohorts renal survival ( no development of end - stage renal failure ) according to the four histologic categories in japanese cohorts the predictive value and reproducibility of this new classification from japan , europe and china were compared in a recent report . as shown in table  2 , among the 100 respective patients ( 32 centers ; europe ) , 121 ( 1 ; china ) and 87 ( 3 ; japan ) , the gpa : mpa ratio was similar between europe and china ( 39:61 and 49:64 ) in contrast to all mpa ( 0:87 ) in japan . on the other hand , for serum anca positivity ,