it is hoped that the findings of this study will help reduce mortality from pneumonia in children and will contribute to achieving the sustainable development goal on child mortality .
health education targeted at caregivers will enhance dissemination of information to fill this knowledge deficit and hopefully reduce morbidity and mortality from childhood pneumonia . therefore the authors intend to embark on workshops to sensitize medical personnel on the need to educate the caregivers on the danger signs and prevention of childhood pneumonia .
this study demonstrated poor knowledge of the aetiology , danger signs , and prevention of childhood pneumonia amongst caregivers .
the study showed high awareness ( 95% ) and knowledge of potential fatality of pneumonia disease ( 97.7% ) among respondents but poor knowledge of the aetiology ( 4.1% ) and danger signs of probable pneumonia .
it was also shown in this study that older caregivers , caregivers with higher educational attainment , and those that are resident in semiurban areas had better knowledge of the cause and danger signs of pneumonia .
unfortunately , only one in five caregivers in developing countries can recognize the danger signs of pneumonia like rapid breathing and chest indrawing , and only half of children under 5 with pneumonia are taken to an appropriate healthcare provider . in a population based survey carried out in six countries in sub - saharan africa , only about 18% and 30% of children with suspected pneumonia in nigeria and ethiopia , respectively , were taken to hospital for healthcare . in a systematic review of ninety - one studies that reported recognition and/or care seeking for diarrhoea , pneumonia , and malaria in low and middle income countries ( lmics ) , it was shown that the median sensitivity of recognition of pneumonia among caregivers was low ( 45.8% ) and care seeking from community health worker for pneumonia was 4.2% . the world health organization ( who ) and unicef have recommended strengthening family 's capacity to recognize danger signs and prompt care seeking as one of the interventions for controlling pneumonia in children under five .