a 29-year - old man presented with sudden neck pain and bilateral weakness of the hands . magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) of the brain did not reveal any lesion .
we experienced a case with atypical anterior - spinal - artery infarct that presented with bilateral hand weakness but without sensory deficits .
magnetic resonance angiography showed proximal occlusion of the left vertebral artery ; a spine mri revealed left cervical cord infarction .
bilateral or unilateral hand weakness can be the sole symptom of a cervical cord infarct .
infarct of the anterior spinal artery is the most common subtype of spinal cord infarct , and is characterized by bilateral motor deficits with spinothalamic sensory deficits .
his motor symptoms improved rapidly except for mild weakness in his left wrist and fingers .
spinal cord infarction is much less frequent than cerebral infarction , accounting for only 1% of all strokes.1 the anterior spinal artery supplies the anterior two - thirds of the spinal cord via the sulcal ( central ) artery .
all subtypes of spinal cord infarcts are presumed to have sensory deficits , and therefore a pure motor presentation can result in misdiagnosis.2,3 anterolateral involvement could explain the present atypical presentation , and bilateral presentation without facial weakness may indicate a spinal cord infarct.5 transient ischemic attacks in the spinal cord reported occur primarily in the cervical cord , and recovery depends on the severity of the initial involvement and its collateral flow.1,2,6 cervical lesions are generally less vulnerable to ischemic insults than are thoracic or lumbar lesions due to the intensive vascularization from the vertebral and radicular arteries.3,6,13 the rapid improvement in the present case might therefore have resulted from initial distal involvement and collateral flow from the intact right vertebral artery . in conclusion , transient bilateral hand weakness can be the initial symptom of a spinal cord infarct , and unilateral hand weakness can be the sole symptom of a cervical cord infarct .