the current unmet challenges with regard to management of hemophilia b are financial sustainability , inhibitor occurrence , and poor uptake of prophylaxis .
hemophilia b is a chronic hereditary disease characterized by a deficiency in factor ix ( fix ) activity .
further research is needed to identify ideal prophylaxis regimens for patients with varying severity of hemophilia b. once - weekly prophylaxis with rix may be a viable treatment option for patients with hemophilia b. prophylaxis regimen at 100 iu / kg may be a safe and effective alternative to twice - weekly prophylaxis at 50 iu / kg .
prophylactic regimen must be more convenient to patients and their caregivers , while being effective and safe to improve adherence to treatment .
to minimize the cost of treatment and to tailor individual treatment to clinical response , it would be of interest to investigate the effect of once - weekly administration of lower doses of fix .
however , it remains unknown how patients with a less severe bleeding phenotype or with better baseline joint status might respond to once - weekly dosing with rix . in many regions of the world ,
gastrointestinal and intracranial bleeding can be life threatening.3 repeated bleeding into joints without adequate treatment can result in crippling chronic joint disease , pain , and reduced quality of life.3,58 the introduction and availability of factor concentrate has dramatically improved the treatment of hemophilia with a significant decrease in morbidity and mortality , and an increase in quality of life.9 early on - demand treatment of acute bleeding episodes decreases the number of joint deformities compared to untreated or minimally treated patient.10,11 nevertheless , long - term musculoskeletal follow - up of on - demand treatment in hemophilia showed a progressive deterioration of the joint functions in these patients . as on - demand treatment appears to be clearly suboptimal , prophylaxis  meaning preventive use of clotting factor given at regular intervals  was proposed and adopted since several decades in sweden.12 in 1994 , the medical and scientific advisory council ( masac ) of the us national hemophilia foundation issued guidelines stating that prophylaxis with twice- or thrice - weekly fix infusion , at a dose of 2540 iu / kg , should be considered the optimal treatment for hemophilia b.13 the european pediatric network for haemophilia management define primary prophylaxis as regular treatment started after first episode of bleeding and secondary prophylaxis as regular or intermittent regular treatment started after several episodes of bleeding.14,15 the world federation of hemophila ( wfh ) guidelines recommend prophylaxis to prevent bleed and joint destruction and preserve normal musculoskeletal function .